# Summary
This study mapped distinct macrophage populations infiltrating the invasive margin and normal adjacent regions of human colo-rectal liver metastasis (CLM), identifying non redundant markers with clinical relevance. Different populations were enriched in the invasive margin, including early-mature, inflammatory macrophages (MoMf) expressing S100A12 and SERPINB2, and a more mature population (TAMs) expressing CD68, GPNMB, and TREM2. Cell-cell interaction analysis with CD8+ T cells defined opposing roles of MoMf and TAMs, with distinct topographical distribution and opposite association with patient clinical outcome.
# Samples
Two samples, GSM8041061 (CLM 01) and GSM8041062 (CLM 02), both involving FFPE Spatial transcriptome sequencing of human colo-rectal liver metastasis (CLM) tissue. Each sample was processed using the same protocol, involving deparaffinization, rehydration, staining, RNA quality determination, library preparation, and sequencing on a NextSeq2000 (Illumina).
# Data Generation
Raw sequencing data were converted into fastqs using Illumina BCL Convert software (version 3.8.2). Fastq files were aligned to the human reference genome GRCh38 with Space Ranger (10X Genomics) version 1.3.1 using the human probe set v1 (Visium_Human_Transcriptome_Probe_Set_v1.0_GRCh38–2020-A.csv). The generated filtered feature matrices were analyzed individually using Scanpy package (version 1.9.1).
# Data Files
## Data File 0
Path : ftp://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/samples/GSM8041nnn/GSM8041061/suppl/GSM8041061_CLM_01_barcodes.tsv.gz
Description : List of spatial barcodes
## Data File 1
Path : ftp://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/samples/GSM8041nnn/GSM8041061/suppl/GSM8041061_CLM_01_features.tsv.gz
Description : List of gene Ids
## Data File 2
Path : ftp://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/samples/GSM8041nnn/GSM8041061/suppl/GSM8041061_CLM_01_matrix.mtx.gz
Description : Gene expression count data in Matrix Market Exchange Format
## Data File 3
Path : ftp://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/samples/GSM8041nnn/GSM8041061/suppl/GSM8041061_CLM_01_tissue_hires_image.png.gz
Description : Hi-res image of tissue
## Data File 4
Path : ftp://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/samples/GSM8041nnn/GSM8041061/suppl/GSM8041061_CLM_01_tissue_lowres_image.png.gz
Description : Low-res image of tissue
## Data File 5
Path : ftp://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/samples/GSM8041nnn/GSM8041061/suppl/GSM8041061_CLM_01_tissue_positions_list.csv.gz
Description : List of spatial barcodes and the coordinates specifying spots
